[Music]
hey guys welcome back to the bench it is
yet another amazing day and I have yet
another amazing project to share with
you guys I have here a solid silver
flask it was made in Sheffield in the
United Kingdom in the year 1900 by James
Dixon and Sons silversmiths now the
inside of the lid has a cork and you
can't see it but I'll make sure to add
in the high resolution gallery where you
can see on the inside it's got a sort of
cam mechanism that rides this lip and
keeps everything sealed so there's a
constant pressure on the cork both of
the cork and the cam mechanism have worn
out because the flask is almost a
hundred and twenty years old but we're
going to fix that follow along you can
see here how much where both of the cork
and catch mechanism have endured over
the years I'll start by using a pair of
fine tipped diamond tweezers to remove
the old cork it's built in layers rather
than a solid piece which was a bit of an
interesting discovery the discoloration
that's visible in the deeper layers is
the result of microbial growth caused by
the layered pork being impossible to
sterilize properly
[Music]
to begin refurbishing the cam mechanism
I need to add some silver here so it's
off to the Orion I've got the Orion set
to rapid mode using it's a triangle
waveform
I'll start by tacking the edge of my
sheet in place add two kilowatts of
power using 12 millisecond pulses once
I'm satisfied that the sheet won't end
or move during the welding process
I'll ramp that up to three kilowatts of
power and 15 millisecond pulses to begin
my initial welding pass that's got my
silver sheet nicely adhered exactly
where I need it the precise control the
Orion gives me over how much and in what
manner energy is delivered to the piece
actually lets me begin shaping the metal
with the Orion itself rather than with
abrasives to that end I'll begin the
shaping process by cranking the power up
one last time to five kilowatts and
increasing my pulse lengths to 25
milliseconds
a little more time shaping and a quick
trip to the steamer and here we are now
I want to take a second guys and make a
point about something that's very
important to us
now the blast that I'm working on here
is almost a hundred and twenty years old
and I don't want to destroy any of the
authenticity or anything that is the
bona fides
of the age of the piece so the name of
the game here is minimal invasion I want
to do the absolute least that I possibly
can to accomplish what I set out to do
and that's what makes the Orion so
amazing I'm going to get into shaping
this tab and then we're going to record
this bad boy I'll use a fine cut file to
shape and re bevel the outside surface
of the catch tab once I'm happy with
that a combination of a square file and
that same fine cut file will assist in
recreating the bottom surface of the
catch I'll have to get up close and
personal to do the edge detailing
there's not a lot of room to work here
which means I'll really have to take my
time
[Music]
mr. a bit more shaping with a fine grit
silicon wheel and a quick trip to the
steamer our newly refurbished catch tab
is looking good check out how perfectly
this cork fits our flask I'll have to
cut it down to just the right length to
fit in here
[Music]
with a little bit of coaxing our new
pork pops right into place in its new
home a quick twist and untwist of the
top to check the new fit shows me that
it's perfect and this flask is ready for
another century of service and there you
have it guys I am super thrilled with
the way that this came out and it is so
cool it's a hundred and twenty years old
it's solid silver I mean you can taste
the character when you just look at it
it's amazing I'm really happy that I
found out about the way that the corks
go in and layers so I took all of that
old nacelle all of the gross Ness and
we've replaced it with a solid piece of
natural cork we've preserved the
integrity of the piece and the piece
itself will last for another hundred
years we always want to hear what you
guys have to tell us down in the comment
section and of course if there's
something you'd like to see let us know
I always hope you'll hit that like and
subscribe button and until the next time
we see you it is always a pleasure
having you with us here at the mansion
[Music]